Selection Sort is a simple and intuitive sorting algorithm. It divides the input list into two parts: the sublist of items already sorted, which is built up from left to right at the front (left) of the list, and the sublist of items remaining to be sorted that occupy the rest of the list. Initially, the sorted sublist is empty and the unsorted sublist is the entire input list. The algorithm proceeds by finding the smallest (or largest, depending on sorting order) element from the unsorted sublist, swapping it with the leftmost unsorted element (putting it in sorted order), and moving the sublist boundaries one element to the right.

### Steps of Selection Sort

1. **Initialize the sorted part to be empty and the unsorted part to be the entire list.**
2. **Repeat until the unsorted part is empty:**
    - Find the smallest (or largest) element in the unsorted part.
    - Swap it with the leftmost unsorted element.
    - Move the boundary between the sorted and unsorted parts one element to the right.

### Pseudocode

```
for i from 0 to n-1
    minIndex = i
    for j from i+1 to n
        if array[j] < array[minIndex]
            minIndex = j
    swap array[i] with array[minIndex]
```

### Cpp Implementation
```cpp
// Online C++ compiler to run C++ program online
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    int tmp = 0;
    
    int arr[] = {5,4,3,2,1};
    
    for(int i=0;i<4;i++){
        
        for(int j=i+1;j<5;j++){
            if(arr[i]>arr[j]){
                tmp = arr[i];
                arr[i] = arr[j];
                arr[j] = tmp;
            }
        }
    }


    for(int i : arr){
        cout<<" "<<i;
    }
    return 0;
}

```

### Time Complexity

Selection Sort has a time complexity of \(O(n^2)\) for all cases (best, average, and worst), where \(n\) is the number of elements in the array. This is because of the two nested loops that iterate through the array.

### Space Complexity

The space complexity of Selection Sort is \(O(1)\), as it only requires a constant amount of additional memory space for variables like `minIndex` and `temp`.

### Key Points

- **In-place sorting:** Does not require additional storage (beyond a few variables).
- **Not stable:** May change the relative order of elements with equal keys.
- **Simple implementation:** Easy to understand and implement.
- **Inefficient for large lists:** Due to its \(O(n^2)\) time complexity, it's not suitable for large datasets compared to more advanced algorithms like quicksort or mergesort.
