**Stack**:-<br>
Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. <br>
The order may be LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In Last Out).<br>
There are many real-life examples of a stack. Consider an example of plates stacked over one another in the canteen.<br>
The plate which is at the top is the first one to be removed, i.e. the plate which has been placed at the bottommost position remains in the stack for the longest period of<br> time.<br>
So, it can be simply seen to follow LIFO(Last In First Out)/FILO(First In Last Out) order<br>

---

**Basic operation on stack**:-<br>
A Stack is a FILO (First In Last Out) data structure where the element that is added first will be deleted last.<br>
Stack operations like insertion (PUSH) and deletion of elements (POP) are performed at the top of the stack.<br>
The elements in a stack are arranged sequentially and hence stacks are said to be linear data structures.<br>
<br>
The most basic stack operations in the data structure are the following:-<br>
<br>
push() - Adds an element at the top of the stack. If the stack is full, then it is an overflow.<br>
pop() - Deletes an element from the top of the stack. If the stack is empty, then it is an underflow.<br>
peek() - Displays the topmost element in the stack.<br>
stack data structure in c<br>
<br>

---

**1) push()**:-<br>
<br>

Check if the stack is full.<br>
If the stack is full, then display "Stack overflow".<br>
If the stack is not full, increment top to the next location.<br>
Assign data to the top element.<br>
<br>

Algorithm_push()<br>
<br>
If TOP >= SIZE – 1 then  //  Stack Overflow indicating that the Stack is FULL.<br>
TOP = TOP + 1<br>
STACK [TOP] = ELEMENT<br>
<br>

---

**2) pop()**:-<br>
<br>


Check if the stack is empty.<br>
If the stack is empty, then display "Stack Underflow".<br>
If the stack is not empty, copy top in a temporary variable<br>
Decrement top to the previous location.<br>
Delete the temporary variable.<br>
<br>

Algorithm_pop()<br>
<br>

If TOP = -1 then  //  Stack Underflow indicating that the Stack is EMPTY.<br>
Return STACK [TOP]<br>
TOP = TOP - 1<br>
<br>

---


**3) peek()**:-<br>
<br>

Print the top most element from the stack.<br>

<br>
Algorithm_peek()<br>
<br>
Return STACK [TOP]<br>
<br>

---
[Link][https://www.faceprep.in/data-structures/stack-basic-operations/#:~:text=Stack%20operations%20like%20insertion%20(PUSH,Arrangement%20of%20plates.]

---

