**What is the sorting?**

The arrangement of data in a preferred order is called sorting in the data structure. By sorting data, it is easier to search through it quickly and easily.
The simplest example of sorting is a dictionary. Before the era of the Internet, when you wanted to look up a word in a dictionary, you would do so in alphabetical order.
This made it easy.

**There are two different categories in sorting:**

_Internal sorting: _
       If the input data is such that it can be adjusted in the main memory at once, it is called internal sorting.

_External sorting:_
      If the input data is such that it cannot be adjusted in the memory entirely at once, it needs to be stored in a hard disk, floppy disk, or any other storage device.
      This is called external sorting.

      
**Types of Sorting in Data Structure:-**

Here are a few of the most common types of sorting algorithms.

**1. Merge Sort**
This algorithm works on splitting an array into two halves of comparable sizes. Each half is then sorted and merged back together by using the merge () function.

Here’s how the algorithm works:

MergeSort(arr[], l,  r)

1.If r > l

1.Divide the array into two equal halves by locating the middle point:  
             middle m = (l+r)/2

2.Use the mergeSort function to call for the first half:   
             Call mergeSort(arr, l, m)

3.Call mergeSort for the second half:
             Call mergeSort(arr, m+1, r)

4.Use the merge () function to merge the two halves sorted in step 2 and 3:
             Call merge(arr, l, m, r)

Check out the image below to get a clear picture of how this works.
[link:-] [https://www.upgrad.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/450px-Merge_sort_algorithm_diagram.svg_.png][1]

**2. Selection Sort**
In this, at first, the smallest element is sent to the first position.

Then, the next smallest element is searched in the remaining array and is placed at the second position. This goes on until the algorithm reaches the final element 
and places it in the right position. 

Look at the picture below to understand it better.   
[link:-][https://www.upgrad.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/selection-sort.png]
**3. Bubble Sort**
It is the easiest and simplest of all the sorting algorithms. It works on the principle of repeatedly swapping adjacent elements in case they are not in the right order.

In simpler terms, if the input is to be sorted in ascending order, the bubble sort will first compare the first two elements in the array. In case the second one is smaller
than the first, it will swap the two, and move on to the next element, and so on.
[link:-][https://www.google.com/search?q=bubble+sort&sxsrf=ALeKk013uoKfCx0b1Ntkgv8ZxoQHhtFFfA:1620824237122&tbm=isch&source=iu&ictx=1&fir=vRwFsGwVfJ6pJM%252CSzhhze6MPQr4cM%252C_&vet=1&usg=AI4_-kQvR5CIMprgvHIR6wLOsuTS8zM6pA&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjE85XnmMTwAhUgyDgGHUNrCPQQ_h16BAgiEAE#imgrc=vRwFsGwVfJ6pJM]
